hey this is presto Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions you may
remember me from such videos as 6/2
parentheses 1 plus 2 or 9 minus 3
divided by 1/3 plus 1 the first video
has over 9 million views and the next
video has over 7 million views right now
the internet is going crazy over another
problem so it's time for the order of
operations to save the day the problem
is 60 divided by 5 parentheses 7 minus 5
what is this equal to we'll solve this
using the order of operations this is
commonly referred to as PEMDAS or
badness it refers to the precedence of
operations we first have parentheses
brackets than exponents orders then
multiplication division and finally
addition subtraction if you have
multiple operations of the same
precedence you should evaluate them from
left to right so in this expression we
have some parentheses so we should
evaluate 7 minus 5 first this is a
non-controversial part of the question
and this is equal to 2 the argument is
about what to do next according to the
order of operations we should evaluate
multiplication and division with equal
precedence going from left to right
therefore we should evaluate 60 divided
by 5 first this will be equal to 12
finally we evaluate 12 times 2 and that
gives us the correct answer of 24 this
is without a doubt the correct answer
according to the modern interpretation
of the order of operations but let's
time travel for a bit
while historically this division symbol
had a special meaning when you wrote it
in text so let me go over this
interpretation we would still evaluate
the parentheses first seven minus five
is equal to two the question is what to
do next the special rule about this
division symbol is that you would
evaluate everything on the left and
divide it by everything on the right so
if you have X divided by two Y that
would be equal to X divided by
parenthesis two times y so if we use
this special rule we would then need to
take 60 and divide it by five times two
so we take 60 on the left
five times two on the right and we would
form a fraction as follows we then would
evaluate five times two as being equal
to 10 and then we would take 60 divided
by ten and get to the answer of six this
is one way that people do interpret this
question so some people say the answer
six other people say it's 24 so some
people would argue the expression is
ambiguously written so there is no
correct answer it is analogous to a
poorly written sentence for example take
the sentence I saw the man with
binoculars does that mean you used
binoculars to see the man or does it
mean you see a person a man who had
binoculars in his possession it's an
ambiguous sentence and you could say
there's no correct way to interpret this
sentence there is a point to be made
here just as we should write precise
sentences we should write precise
mathematical expressions however in
practice we have to resolve ambiguity
just as courts interpret and make
rulings on ambiguous laws calculators
parse and evaluate seemingly ambiguous
expressions like 60 divided by 5
these 7-5 a calculator will not tell you
oh the expression is ambiguously written
there is no correct answer it actually
will evaluate this expression so what do
calculators do how do they evaluate 60
divided by five parenthesis seven minus
five the calculator will interpret it
using its programmed order of operations
its own precedents of how to evaluate
different operators one way to visualize
the process is a binary expression tree
so imagine you put this into a
calculator it's going to make a guess
about how to interpret this and one way
a calculator will interpret this is just
as I explained using PEMDAS
by putting a parenthesis between the 60
and the 5 we can then visualize the
binary expression tree as follows we
have the operation of 60 divided by 5
that's one subtree we then have 7 minus
5 that's another subtree and finally we
take these two evaluations and we
multiply them together and if you do
that you get to the answer of 24 which
is what PEMDAS or baaad mas says the
answer should be the other people would
say that you should put a parenthesis
over here after the division sign the
binary tree for this expression will
look different at the very bottom we
have 7 minus 5 we then take 5 multiplied
by this result we then take 60 and
divide it by this result so we have a
completely different binary expression
tree this binary expression tree will
evaluate to 6 so this is what the debate
is about is the answer 24 or is it six
which binary expression tree do you
think is correct for the above
expression well we can actually try this
on several calculators
let's put it into Google for example 60
divided by five parentheses 7-5 how does
google interpret this well if we input
this as a search we get the Google
calculator result of 24 and if you zoom
in and look at this expression you'll
see it parses it exactly as the binary
tree on the Left we do 60 divided by 5
and then we multiply it by the quantity
7-5 and that's what gets us to the
answer of 24 Google is not the only
calculator that'll do this many
calculators in fact we'll give you the
answer of 24 one such calculator is the
Android calculator app if you put in 60
divided by 5 parentheses 7-5 you'll also
get the answer of 24 I've also tried
this on many many other calculators
you'll also get the answer of 24 but I
wouldn't be surprised if some calculator
did give the answer of 6 if it evaluated
it according to the other binary tree
but from what I've seen almost every
calculator gives the answer 24
so in summary 24 is the unambiguous
answer according to the modern
interpretation of PEMDAS or badness and
many calculators also evaluate the
expression this way so I would say 24 is
the correct answer to this expression I
love that people are passionate about
mathematics and this seemingly simple
trivial problem actually led us to
understanding the order of operations it
led us to a little bit of math history
and typesetting and we got to explore
binary expression trees it's just
amazing and I'm sure the people who are
arguing about this problem will make
great contributions to mathematics and
society because they have such passion
about these seemingly trivial
expressions thanks for watching this
video these math videos which can be
watched for free inspire and build
confidence for people around the world
and they already have over a hundred
million views let's share the beauty of
mathematics with your help we can map
the world a better place
please subscribe for free to get the
newest videos watch and share all of
mind your decisions videos and if you so
choose you can check out my books which
are linked in the video description and
you can support me on patreon to earn
exclusive rewards thanks for watching
and thanks for your support